# Oscillating-Object-Detector-with-Remote

In this arduino project, I first glued the Ultrasonic Sensor to the Servo Motor propeller. The Ultrasonic Sensor would constantly be sending out high frequency sound waves and wait for them to be reflected back. Based on the time it took for the waves to be reflected, I was able to calculate the distance between the sensor and the object using a simple formula. I used an “if statement” to detect when the distance is below 15 centimeters, which would cause the red light to blink and the motor to stop rotating. Finally, I used the remote control and the receiver to set up buttons that would increase/decrease the speed of the rotating motor. Each button on the remote sent out a specific signal to the receiver, and I was able to execute unique code based on which signal the receiver recorded. 

For the coding aspect of this project, I used C within the Arduino IDE. This is very similar to traditional C, however it is modified to communicate with the microcontroller. I had to download a couple libraries from the arduino website so that I could controller the Servo Motor and the Remote. In the beginning of my code, I included my libraries and set some universal variables. In the setup scope I used these variables to initialize all of the pins and prerequisites for the mechanical components. In the main loop of the programs, I used two for loops: the first to go from the starting angle to 180 degrees, and the second loop to return back to the starting position. Aside from their direction, these loops were nearly identical. They would check for certain conditions such as distance and new signals, then add one degree to the angle of the motor until the for loop ended. At the end of my program, I declared functions that allowed my code in the main loop to be more organized and condensed.

I have attached a closer picture of the electricity components of my projects. I apologize for it looking very messy, mostly because it is not spread out and the wires are not color coded. I unfortunately did not have enough wires of each color to make the circuit organized. 
